number one the lake toba super volcano
it happened 74 000 years ago and it was
one of the earth's largest explosive
eruptions
it caused a global winter that lasted
for years
volcanic gases were ejected into both
hemispheres and moved all around the
planet
the eruption created the famous lake
toba which covers an area of 436 square
miles
the topo volcano is still active and if
a similar eruption happens again
it will directly affect both indonesia
and malaysia
but toba could also pump out enough gas
to affect the whole world's climate
and just like last time there will be
cooler temperatures
increased amounts of ice and a lot more
snow
countries and regions from northwestern
australia to east africa
might experience tsunamis the world's
economy could be damaged
plant life would struggle and travel
would be paralyzed
if the volcano reawakens the only
solution
would be a mass evacuation
number two the helena slump the possible
collapse of the southern portion of the
kilauea volcano on the big island of
hawaii
is a real danger this area is called the
helena slump
and it could drop 2 900 cubic miles of
rock into the pacific ocean
that could generate a mega tsunami that
would spread around the pacific and
reach the western coast of north america
in just a few hours 120 000 years ago
a similar collapse occurred near mauna
loa in hawaii
it caused a tsunami with waves as high
as the taipei skyscraper
one of the world's tallest buildings
right now the slump is becoming deformed
faster than any other oceanic island
slump in the world
pushed along by magma it moves four
inches per year toward the sea
but geologists believe that a mega
tsunami is unlikely to happen soon
because the slump is reinforced on some
narrow land that prevents it from
detaching from the volcano
number three a north sea tsunami
more than 6200 years ago the climate
started getting warmer
and it caused ice to melt and the sea
levels to rise
this made the underwater sediment around
the edge of norway much heavier
and this caused a 180 mile long coastal
shelf to collapse
this event is known as the three storega
slides
which scientists think were among the
largest submarine landslides to have
ever occurred
when the shelf collapsed it caused a
mega tsunami in the north atlantic ocean
two things could have caused the
collapse one was a possible earthquake
which triggered an expansion of fire
eyes these are deposits of ice
containing methane molecules
and they usually appear at the bottom of
the sea or
it could be that ice carried trillions
of tons of solid material
to the edge of the coastal shelf where
it melted
then there was an earthquake which
caused a large area of the sea floor to
collapse deeper into the sea
the wave was felt beyond the shores of
scotland and even went as far as
greenland
the result is the ormond lounge a
natural gas field on the norwegian
continental shelf
but some scientists believe that a
similar event could only occur
after a new ice age while others think
that there's no significant risk
of a new landslide happening at all
number four
the cascadian trench big one at the
bottom of the pacific ocean off the west
coast of north america
there's a subduction zone that's when
two tectonic plates
meet and one starts to bend and slide
below the other
the cascadian trench runs from northern
california to vancouver island
in this case the oceanic floor is being
forced beneath the north american land
mass
the floor moves around 1.6 inches per
year
but the upper part of the system is
stuck and now the north american plate
is compressed
the pressure keeps building up there and
it needs to be released
it might happen in the form of a
magnitude 9 earthquake
this might cause the coast to sink by
six and a half feet
and could make it move horizontally and
after the earthquake tails off
the coast could experience a tsunami
similar to the wave that hit japan in
2011.
scientists have calculated that in the
last 10 000 years
the area has experienced 41 large
earthquakes
the last magnitude 9 tremor occurred in
january 1700
experts currently believe there's a 37
percent chance
that a 7.1 magnitude tremor will occur
in the next 50 years
number five the sun's big one luckily
for us
one of the worst solar flares ever
recorded happened when our civilization
wasn't vulnerable to the fury of the sun
it's known as the carrington event it
happened in september 1859
long before the development of modern
technology a huge wave of plasma and
magnetic field
washed over the earth's own protective
magnetic layer
this produced an enormous solar storm
this led to intense auroras that lit up
the skies
but aside from the pretty lights the
strong electrical currents that came
with the storm had major consequences
the telegraph communication systems
covering both europe and north america
went down fires blade and disconnected
power supplies kept relaying their eerie
messages
in 1989 another bad solar storm struck
the earth
the most extreme results were seen in
quebec canada the power grid went
totally offline
and six million people were left without
electricity
since solar flares happen often some
scientists predict that another powerful
storm will occur
soon they've named it the big one big
solar storms like this happen only once
every 500 years
scientists believe it'll be powerful
enough to knock out electrical and
communication systems around the world
for days
months or even years number six
a new asteroid impact once every few
million years
an object appears from space that's
large enough to threaten civilization
the asteroid or comet that wiped out the
dinosaurs
was about seven to fifty miles in
diameter if
a similar rock comes along again then
this is what would happen
first the impact might cause a tsunami
although this depends on whether the
rock falls into the middle of the ocean
or on dry land a cloud of hot dust
ash and steam will spread out from the
impact crater
debris and pieces of the asteroid will
be thrown out of the atmosphere by the
blast
they'll be heated by radiation and if
they fall back to earth
they could ignite wildfires the shock
from the impact will meanwhile
trigger global earthquakes and volcanic
eruptions
dust and other particles could cover the
planet's surface for years
creating a harsh environment that would
be difficult to survive in
to prepare for this scenario some
scientists are designing a conceptual
asteroid deflector
the idea is to send explosives out to
the asteroid
this would destroy parts of its surface
and hopefully change its orbit
number 7 yellowstone volcano
located underneath yellowstone national
park in the u.s
the yellowstone super volcano is one of
the most actively monitored places on
the planet
it's experienced three super eruptions
in the past two million years
the last one occurred 640 thousand years
ago
i wasn't around that and created a
sunken giant crater
with an area of 1500 square miles
if it erupts again the consequences
could be worse than the toba event
because most of the ash will fall onto
land instead of in the sea
the last eruption spread volcanic ash
across both american continents
all vegetation might cease to exist and
animals could end up breathing in toxic
chemicals
the ground would become brighter and
incoming radiation would reflect back
into the atmosphere
this could cause a lengthy drought water
supplies would become blocked up
electricity lines would fail and there
would be major disruptions to transport
gee i think it's time to stock up on
toilet paper